The Internet of Things (IoT) refers to devices with sensors that communicate with each other and with the Internet.

Azure IoT Hub allows you to manage IoT devices and route messages to and from those devices.

Azure IoT Hub Provisioning Service makes it easy to provision a large number of devices into IoT Hub.

Azure IoT Central is a SaaS offering for monitoring IoT devices.

Azure Sphere is a service for securing IoT devices.

Azure Sphere is composed of the Azure Sphere MCU, the Azure Sphere OS, and the Azure Sphere Security Service.

Big data refers to more data that you can analyze through conventional means within a desired timeframe.

Azure Synapse is the replacement for SQL Data Warehouse.

Azure Synapse stores big data and also provides for data analysis in a cluster.

An Azure Synapse cluster consists of Synapse SQL, Apache Spark integration, data integration of Apache Spark and Azure Data Lake Storage, and a web-based user interface called Azure Synapse Studio.

Data Lake Storage is good for any type of data because it stores unstructured data.

HDInsight is Microsoft’s solution for clustered Hadoop processing of big data.

Azure Databricks is a good solution for modeling data from a data warehouse so that it can be effectively used in ML modeling.

Databricks clusters are made up of notebooks that can store all types of information.

The process of AI decision-making at several points along the neural network is referred to as the ML pipeline.

Azure Machine Learning uses cloud-based resources to train ML models much faster.

The Enterprise edition of Azure Machine Learning offers designers that allow you to build, train, and score ML models in a drag-and-drop interface.

Cognitive Services provide numerous APIs that allow you to quickly develop machine learning solutions.

Azure Bot Service runs on Azure App Service and makes it easy to build powerful AI-driven interaction.

Serverless computing refers to using surplus VMs in Azure to run your code on demand. You pay only for when your code runs.

Azure Functions is the compute component of serverless in Azure.

Azure Logic Apps is a workflow serverless solution that uses connectors, triggers, and actions.

Azure Event Grid makes it possible to raise and handle events as you interact with your Azure resources.

Azure DevOps is an easy way to plan, track, and manage projects and work with teams.

Azure DevTest Labs makes it easy to access ready-made VMs that are configured exactly the way you need them to be.

GitHub is a source code repository and a web portal for working with those repositories.

GitHub Actions allow you to add event-driven workflows to events in GitHub using either preconfigured Actions in the Marketplace or Actions you build with YAML files.

The Azure portal is a web-based interface for interacting with your Azure services. It uses ARM API calls under the hood to talk to Azure Resource Manager.

Azure PowerShell Az is a cross-platform PowerShell module that makes it easy to manage Azure resources in PowerShell.

The Azure CLI is a command line tool that is cross-platform and can be scripted in multiple languages.

Azure Cloud Shell provides command line access to Azure from just about any device.

Cloud Shell persists any files copied to it by using an Azure storage account.

The Azure Mobile app allows you to manage your Azure resources from your iOS or Android device.

Azure Advisor provides best practice recommendations in the area of high availability, security, performance, and cost.

ARM templates are JSON files that can be used to create and modify Azure resources using Azure Resource Manager.

Azure Monitor aggregates metrics for Azure resources. You can create alerts based on those metrics.

Azure Service Health provides information related to incidents in Azure that impact your resources.
